
To protect yourself and others from coronavirus (COVID-19), think about how the virus is spread.
Coronavirus is spread in sneeze or cough droplets. To infect you, it has to get from an infected person's nose or mouth into your eyes, nose or mouth. This can be direct or indirect (on hands, objects, surfaces). 
Keep this in mind. It will help you remember all the things you need to do to protect yourself and others from the virus.
Everyone needs to stay at home to help slow the spread of coronavirus.
You should only leave your home to: 
shop for essential food and household goods 
attend medical appointments, collect medicine or other health products
care for children, older people or other vulnerable people - this excludes social family visits
exercise outdoors - within 2 kilometres of your home, changing to 5 kilometres from 5 May - only with people from your own household, keeping 2 metres between you and other people
travel to work if you provide an essential service - be sure to practice social distancing
There is separate advice about:
restricting your movements if you live with someone who has symptoms, a confirmed case or has returned to Ireland from another country
self-isolating if you have symptoms of coronavirus
taking extra care if you're in a high risk group
cocooning for people who are at very high risk (extremely vulnerable)
Avoid non-essential travel overseas and follow the Department of Foreign Affairs travel advice.
Get medical help if you need it
Protecting yourself from coronavirus is important. But do not ignore or delay seeking medical treatment for other abnormal signs or symptoms that you may be experiencing. All health services have precautions in place to protect against the spread of coronavirus. 
Phone your GP to discuss your symptoms. They may give you advice over the phone or arrange to see you in person.
If you are feeling very unwell, call 112 or 999 and tell them about your symptoms. In particular, if you or someone else is showing signs of a stroke or heart attack do not be afraid to go to your local emergency department.
Your chest feels tight or heavy.
You have pain that spreads to your arms, back, neck and jaw.
Time - To call 112 or 999 if you see any single one of these signs.
Social distancing is important to help slow the spread of coronavirus. It does this by minimising contact between potentially infected individuals and healthy individuals.
keep a space of 2 metres (6.5 feet) between you and other people
avoid communal sleeping areas
avoid any crowded places
not shake hands or make close contact with other people, if possible
There is very little risk if you are just passing someone. But try to keep a distance of 2 metres as much as possible.
Social distancing at work
Follow social distancing advice everywhere outside the home. If you are an essential worker still going to work, this includes your workplace.
employer and want advice on coronavirus prevention measures in the workplace
Good hygiene and hand washing
Follow this advice as strictly as possible and encourage others to follow this advice too.
Wash your hands properly and often.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve when you cough and sneeze.
Put used tissues into a bin and wash your hands.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.
Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean.
Do not share objects that touch your mouth – for example, bottles, cups.
Wash your hands properly and often
You should wash your hands:
after coughing or sneezing
before and after eating
before and after preparing food
if you were in contact with someone who has a fever or respiratory symptoms (cough, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing)
before and after being on public transport, if you must use it
before and after being in a crowd (especially an indoor crowd)
when you arrive and leave buildings including your home or anyone else's home
if you have handled animals or animal waste
before having a cigarette or vaping
if your hands are dirty
after toilet use
Keep your hands in good condition. Moisturise them often. Any basic product that is not perfumed or coloured is OK. 
Encourage your child to wash their hands regularly and properly. They should also follow advice on staying at home and social distancing.
Read more advice for parents and children during the coronavirus outbreak
Do not wear disposable gloves instead of washing your hands. The virus gets on them in the same way it gets on your hands. Also, your hands can get contaminated when you take them off.
Disposable gloves are worn in medical settings. They are not as effective in daily life.
Wearing disposable gloves can give you a false sense of security.
sneeze or cough into the gloves - this creates a new surface for the virus to live on
contaminate yourself when taking off the gloves or touching surfaces
not wash your hands as often as you need to and touch your face with contaminated gloves
Read a step-by-step guide on how to properly wash your hands and avoid infection.
Face masks
Wearing a mask is unlikely to be of any benefit if you are not sick.
If you do need to wear a mask, here is how to use one properly.
Clean your hands properly before you put it on.
Cover your mouth and nose with the mask and make sure there are no gaps between your face and the mask.
Tie the mask securely.
Replace the mask as soon as it is damp.
Do not touch the mask while wearing it - if you do, clean your hands properly.
Do not use a damp or wet mask.
Do not reuse a mask.
To take a mask off properly:
remove it from behind - do not touch the front of the mask
put it in a bin straight away
clean your hands properly
Keeping well
Infectious disease outbreaks like coronavirus (COVID-19) can be worrying. This can affect your mental health.
